@x1              CHEMICAL THERMODYNAMICS CALCULATOR V1.10
	        	  QUICK-TEACH CARD


 G e t t i n g     S t a r t e d
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
 Q. How do I run the Demo version from diskette?
 A. Insert Chemical Demo diskette into drive A:, then type

    A:
    INSTALL <target drive/directory>

    where   you're  to  replace  <target  drive/directory>  with
    combination of drive and path where you want Chemical  files
    to  be  placed.  For example, "INSTALL C:\CHEMICAL". At this
    point, all files that Chemical needs  are  transferred  from
    Demo diskette to hard disk. To run program, insert Demo disk
    in drive A:, come in Chemical's directory and type

    CH

    Since  Demo diskette is copy protected, make sure that it is
    in drive A: each time you're starting Chemical.

 Q. How do I leave Chemical?
 A. Choose  File/Quit option from the Main menu or, while in the
    Problem window or the Main menu, hit Alt/X.


 E d i t i n g   T h e   P r o b l e m
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
 Q. I wanna solve my problem. What is my first step to do it?
 A. You  must  first  come  into the Problem window. To do this,
    choose option "Problem" from Main menu.

 Q. How do I set temperature and pressure?
 A. Move  highlight  bar on corresponding field and press Enter.
    You will see prompt, wherein you would type values of  T  or
    P. Use the following format:

    <first point>[,<number of points>,<last point>]

    where <first point> - lowest T or P in interval,
	  <last point>  - higher T or P in interval,
	  <number of points> - how many points (including ends
             of the interval) must be reckoned.

    If  you  want to give out only one point, omit parameters in
    square brackets.

 Q. What  is  the  difference  between  linear and logarithmical
    scales?
 A. If  you  choose Linear scale, interval is divided into equal
    cutoffs; If you choose Logarithmical scale, each next cutoff
    will be greater than previous one in the same ratio.

 Q. What do I get turning Ions on?
 A.1In  this case ionized species will be retrieved from base as
    well as neutral. It is useful to turn on this option only if
    temperature is about several thousands K.

 Q. How do I specify Initial mix?
 A. First, locate highlight bar on the heading "Initial mix" and
    press  the  Ins key. Then, in the prompt that appeared, type
    formula of initial specie, colon (":") and mole fraction  of
    this   specie.   Press  F1  in  this  prompt  to  scan  thru
    comprehensive rules of entering formulae.

 Q. How do I edit and delete species in Problem?
 A. To  edit  specie,  move highlight bar on it and press Enter.
    The prompt appears, where you can edit desirable things.  To
    delete specie, locate cursor on it and press Del.

 Q. How do I specify Excluded species?
 A. The  operations  there are quite like the ones in giving out
    initial mix, with the difference that  you  must  type  only
    formula, neither colon nor number.

 Q. What is unlikeness between Excluded and Included species?
 A. Excluded  species  (ie  species that are to be excluded) are
    these ones which aren't extracted from database even if they
    are  in.  Included  species  are  the  only  ones  that  are
    retrieved from the database.

 Q. How do I specify Solid solution?
 A. Locate cursor on "Solid solution" header and press Ins. Then
    type  formula  of  the  first  specie  in solution and press
    Enter. To add the next specie to the solution, locate cursor
    on formula of the first specie in this solution,  press  Ins
    and  enter  formula.  Note  that  the Del key deletes specie
    under cursor if it is not the only one in the  solution  and
    the  whole  solution otherwise. To delete entire solution at
    once, place cursor on solution number and press Del.

 Q. How do I specify Fixed components?
 A. This  is  definitely  the  same  as  specifying Initial mix,
    except that after the colon you're to  give  out  percentage
    from maximal abundance of this specie.

 Q. How do I specify Linear constraints?
 A. This  is like specifying Solid solutions, with the following
    two exceptions. First, you are asked for  right  hand  value
    each  time  you  create  new constraint. Right hand value is
    given  in  moles/mole-atom.   Second,   you   must   specify
    coefficient  with  each  specie  in  constraint. It is typed
    after formula while entering and separated from it by  colon 
    sign.


 F i l e   O p e r a t i o n s
----------------------------------------------------------------
 Q. How do I access file operations?
 A. You access them thru the option "File" in the Main menu.

 Q. I wanna save my problem. What am I to do?
 A. Choose  the option "Save" from the File menu. If you haven't
    yet provided name for your problem, you will  be  asked  for
    it.  If  the  problem  already  has a name, problem is saved
    without any questions. The same function can be performed by
    pressing F2 key from the Problem  window.  If  you  want  to
    change  the  name,  use  the option "Write to" from the File
    menu. In this case you're always asked for name to assign to
    problem.

 Q. I've got a file with a problem in. How do I load it?
 A. Choose the option "Load" from the File menu or hit F3 key if
    you're  in the Problem window. Then type in name of the file
    you want to load. Note that the problem that is  already  in
    the Problem window will be lost.

 Q. I desire to erase the Problem window. Could I?
 A. Of course. Simply choose the option "New" from the File menu.

 Q. How do I leave Chemical for a minute?
 A. Select  choice "DOS shell" from the File menu. The transient
    copy of DOS shell will be  invoked.  After  completing  your
    work  in  DOS, type "EXIT" on its prompt, and you'll back in
    Chemical.

 Q. How do I leave Chemical for good?
 A. Select choice "Quit" from the File menu or hit Alt/X (almost
    everywhere in Chemical).


 S o l v i n g   T h e   P r o b l e m
 ---------------------------------------------------------------

 Q. How do I start solving?
 A. Do  it  by culling "Solve" from the Main menu or by pressing
    F9 from the Problem window.

 Q. I  had entered very simple problem with C and H atoms in. As
    I had started  its  solving,  Chemical  retrieved  over  100
    species  from  the  database  and then calculated very slow.
    Why?

 A. There  are  lot  of  species  (over 200) of the form CnHm in
    Chemical's database. To prevent extracting such large number
    of species, there is a restriction to number of C  atoms  in
    that  species.  Only  those  hydrocarbons  are extracted, in
    which number of C atoms less than that quantity.  To  access
    this  value,  choose  Options/Solve/C-chains  from  the Main
    menu, and then type  in  new  restriction.  For  most  cases
    restriction of 3 C atoms is quite useful.

 Q. After  solving my problem, Chemical show "Refinement points"
    menu. What is refinement?
 A. To build smooth graphics, it is preferable to divide some of
    intervals   between  two  consecutive  points  into  smaller
    cutoffs, ie solve problem in several  points  lying  between
    primary  given  points.  In this menu you mark the intervals
    where such refinement is to be done.  Marked  intervals  are
    stamped  with  a bird sign. Move cursor on interval you want
    to refine; Enter will toggle marking sign for this interval.
    By pressing F10 or Esc you call up  the  Local  menu,  where
    some  services are available. End up marking by touching F9.
    You will be asked  for  number  of  points,  which  will  be
    calculated inside each marked interval. The default for this
    number is given in Option/Solve/Refinement points.

 Q. Chemical refuses to solve my problem, either by not reaching
    the convergency, or (heaven forbid!) by hanging up computer.
    What do I do?
 A. There's one thing can help you. Enter Options/Solve/Estimate
    spread  menu and choose larger Estimate spread rate. This is
    the parameter that influences to initial estimate procedure;
    the larger its value, the more  "spread"  initial  estimate.
    This   usually  causes  somewhat  slower  solving,  although
    decreases probability of overflowing  in  initial  estimate.
    The  recommended  value  is  2 for equilibrious problems and
    larger for conditionally-equilibrious ones. Values above  15
    are not recommended.

 Q. How do I improve accuracy of solving?
 A. Enter   Options/Solve/Accuracy   menu.   There  are  several
    selections for convergence  with  correspondent  limits  for
    iterations in each point.

 Q. What is significance level?
 A. In  obtained  solution  present  all  species  that has been
    retrieved from database. Notwithstanding, the most  part  of
    them  has  insignificantly  low  concentration. Significance
    level is such concentration, that if any specie in all point
    has its concentration lower that this value, it  is  assumed
    missing and is neither shown nor printed. To look at species
    with  non-zero  concentration  in at least one point, select
    zero SL. To look all species, select it negative.

 Q. In what units of measurement do I obtain results of solving?
 A. In moles/mole-atom. For more details, read "Math Backbone Of
    Chemical" in file MATHBASC.DOC.

 Q. How do I look at results?
 A. Use  Look  option from the Result menu. You will see a table
    with calculated points by columns vs species concentrations,
    then chemical potentials of all  elements  and  constraints,
    then  summary  abundances  of  all multi- specie phases, and
    then reached convergency by rows. Scroll table  using  arrow
    keys  or  mouse  motions;  use  Esc or right mouse button to
    leave it.

 Q. How do I print results?
 A. Use Print option from the Results menu. There you can choose
    different  print  styles,  such  as  density  and quality of
    letters, paper width, height ant type (fanfold or sheets) or
    redirect output to other printer or to a file.

 Q. What can I do while I'm in grafix page?
 A. You  can  toggle between Vapor and Solid display by touching
    Space or left mouse button or print graphics by hitting F9.

 D a t a b a s e   O p e r a t i o n s
----------------------------------------------------------------

 Q. How do I access Database operation menu?
 A. By choosing Database option from the Main menu.

 Q. I  wanna  know  which  species,  that may be formed from the
    given atoms, are in database. What must I do?
 A. Choose  Database/Look/AND  search  menu.  Then enter list of
    chemical symbols of the atoms. If you want to  look  ionized
    form as well, add comma and them minus sign after the list.

 Q. I  wanna look at all species that contain some atom(s). What
    must I do?

 A. Choose  Database/Look/OR  search  menu.  Then  enter list of
    chemical symbols of the atoms. If you want to  look  ionized
    form as well, add comma and them minus sign after the list.

 Q. I wanna add a new specie to the database. How can I do it?
 A. First,   cull  Database/Look/Append  menu.  The  Props  menu
    appears. In the first line  give  out  formula  of  the  new
    specie.  In  two  successive  lines  enter the lower and the
    higher temperature  of  range  in  what  props  that  you're
    entering  are right. Then, define seven coefficients phi and
    H. How these coefficients are calculated  you  may  read  in
    "Math Backbone Of Chemical" in file MATHBASC.DOC.

----------------------------------------------------------------

